Nowadays, a large number of people relocate from rural areas to cities to find work. Many cities are overcrowded and polluted while rural areas are depopulated. Unfortunately, rural depopulation is not necessarily a positive trend. The migration from the country to the city may bring some negative effects to society. 

Rural depopulation may lead to environmental crisis in cities. Rapid population growth increases the demand for natural resources that urban residents would create more household waste and pollution such as soil pollution and water pollution. On the other hand, overpopulation may cause social problems in large cities. People living in metropolises are facing tough competition for jobs, high commodity prices and housing prices. By contrast, rural depopulation may result in agricultural labour shortages in rural areas. This means that young rural residents move to cities to find jobs rather than engage in agricultural production in their hometowns, which hinders economic growth in rural areas.

Accordingly, a series of targeted measures ought to be taken by government in order to reverse the trend of rural depopulation. Firstly, the government should create sufficient employment opportunities in rural areas through encouraging companies and factories to move to the countryside, which would tempt young population return to the country and contribute to local economy. Also, the government should develop modern agriculture which increases the income of agricultural labourers. Last but not least, allocating social resources fairly is one of the most effective ways to change rural depopulation. The government should improve the infrastructure in rural areas such as increasing spending on rural schools and hospitals. 

In conclusion, rural depopulation may cause adverse effects. In order to balance the development of both urban and rural areas, the government should enhance job opportunities, improve the development of agriculture, provide better facilities and raise the living standard of rural dwellers.
